Day 11
Today was decision day. There was a lot of discussion on the different subsystems and here’s what we decided:
Drivebase: 27x27 - Short
Intake: Over the bumper
Shooter: Dual Shooter
Hopper: Roller Hopper (Cranberry Alarm)
Climber: Traversal Climber (Climber in a box-esqe)
Drivebase
Not much changed here as we had agreed early on that we wanted to be 27x27 and short. We’ve already built the practice drive base. We can start on bumpers now.
Intake
The intake wasn’t fully decided early on but we were heavily leaning towards an over the bumper intake. Also, Team Update #03 removes protection for robots getting hit in bumper caps or cut out in frames so over the bumper intake looks to be the right call
Shooter
This was tough. We talked about what we viewed as most important to less important for our shooter and based on the number and initial voting, turret shooter was the decision. As you can see above, that was not what we agreed on. More on that later.
Hopper
We agreed on spindexer initially as well but discussed the loss of hopper space versus rollers and had a good discussion on trade offs. More on this later as well.
Climber
We didn’t talk much about this since this isn’t high on our list but we agreed the end goal is a traversal climber. How that looks is TBD but we feel we can make an L1 climber for McAllen with the plan to improve for Space City and States
So what happened?
By the end of the discussion, we started looking at what our goal was this year and that is to make it to the state championship. We also looked at the status of the prototypes we have now and realized that we could finish a practice robot very early if we kept our robot simple. Building a spindexer and turret would take some additional time and while we feel this is the best option of success, we aren’t 100% confident we would get it in a good spot like we want before McAllen. So an idea was proposed that everyone is in favor of (students, not mentors. The jury is still out by the mentors). Build a double shooter-roller robot in a week or 2. Get a lot of practice time and testing to be ready for McAllen. Work on a turret-spindexer starting week 5 or 6 of build season to be ready for States. This was not in our initial season plans but we feel this could allow us to take advantage and give us a good shot of doing well at McAllen, continue to gain points for states at Space City and then allow us to improve our competitiveness at States when everyone else is doing the same. Also, if we feel our double shooter is our best option and we don’t want to change, we don’t have to make any changes at all. This would be the first time we’ve ever committed to a rebuild (the name of the game is Rebuilt so it makes sense) mid-season. 
The goal this weekend is to have a fully built V1 practice robot that can drive, intake, index the fuel (hopper) and shoot. I think this is achievable, especially with our long meetings this week.