We had a great turn out for our first regular meeting of the season. Today was spent discussing the major systems of the robot and sharing information and research we did after kickoff and on Sunday.

Drive
Not much to discuss here as we all agreed we wanted to go 27x27 for frame size. There was some discussion about maybe doing a rectangle frame instead of a square but we aren’t sure how the swerve programming would be and wanted to focus on doing what we know vs learning something new with something so important to our robot.

Shooter
We had a long discussion here about what we wanted out of our shooter. The team is pretty divided on either a single turret shooter or a double shooter. Good arguments were made for both and we haven’t made a final decision on which one we wanted. We did focus on 3 main factors of the shooter that are important to us: (all numbers are based on robot performance at our first event)
A
ccuracy: Need -> 80%, Want -> 95%
Accuracy is important. What sparked this conversation was looking at the 254 tech binder from 2017 when we were looking up examples of double shooters. They stated that their shooter was 85% accurate for the season which led us to asking what we felt was acceptable for our shooter. Seeing how the balls are bigger, denser and heavier than that year and the goal being shorter but with a bigger opening (someone fact check me please), we felt if we were making 80% of our shots, we would feel pretty good with our performance and allow for some improvement.

R.o.F. (Rate of Fire): Need -> 7 bps (balls per second), Want -> 16 bps
R.o.F. is the bread and butter of this game. 7 bps is the minimum we feel we need for McAllen. I do think we can get this number higher but I think as a team, we haven’t built a ball shooter since 2022 meaning we have 0 experience on the team with ball shooters. So this will be something we want to see and test soon. This number can drastically change within the next few days/week.

Cycle Time: Need -> 20 secs, Want -> 12 secs.
We spent a lot of time discussing this and it was a hard number to settle on. What would a cycle actually look like in this game with the active and inactive periods? We wanted to focus on what a cycle would be if we lost auto and had an active period first. The reason is if we won auto, we would be inactive first, allowing us to run a “collection cycle” which would then skew our cycle times if all the balls were in our Alliance Zone. Then the discussion shifted to what type of cycle would be ideal. One where you run through the trench only or make a lap between the Neutral Zone and Alliance Zone. We settled on defining a cycle for this metric as us having to go to the Neutral Zone to get fuel then returning to the Alliance Zone to score. 

Hopper
For the hopper, we started by looking at if we wanted to be tall or short. While being tall has its benefits, we weren’t sure if they out weighed being short and still being able to go over the bump, so short was decided quickly. We all agreed that we wanted to be able to expand the hopper using the 12 inch extension limit, and that the hopper needed to be active. We aren’t sure what the active part looks like just yet but we know it has to be. Half our fuel came in today so we looked at the dimensions of the box and how many balls were in there. We guessed between 42-48 so we think our hopper should have the ability to hold 50+. This is a rough number and we think we will want to actually build out a mockup of the hopper before we know for sure what that looks like.

Intake
Our intake options are a Cut in Frame (CF) or Over the Bumper (OB). We listed the pros for both options and what the max width of both would be with our robot configuration. We also drew up some sketches of what that could look like with our vision of expanding the hopper to the 12 inch limit. We’ll most likely revisit this again before the practice robot gets built.

Climber
The climber is what we closed the meeting with. There were a lot of creative ideas presented and we spent a lot of time educating ourselves on what the different types of climbers are. We agreed that we need the following for McAllen:
L1
10 second climb
Comes down after auto
We also added some wants but made sure to take into account that this subsystem isn’t going to get a lot of the attention right away:
L2
5 seconds to L1
12 seconds to L2
Afterwards we started looking at different types of climbers more in depth and listed the ideas everyone had. We focused in more the traversal climb, similar to climbs in 2022 and want to explore the windmill climb (think 118, 2022) more before we lock in on something
Practice Bot
The practice robot swerve modules were assembled during the meeting. The goal will be to assemble the drive base tomorrow with the hopes of having it driving by the weekend. 